I first learned about Cao Fei in a Chinese contemporary art class, in which we also discussed her work with VR. Just two weeks ago, I encountered her work again, this time in an AR app where her work was featured as an element you could superimpose into your own space. When reading about RMB City, the biggest connection I made was to the Sims, where people also build fantasy worlds, create avatars and interact with other players, and spend real money in exchange for Sims currency to spend within the game. Just as China Tracy was not a true physical representation of Cao Fei, people in RMB City and Sims use the virtual space to create caricatures of themselves, whether as projections of their desired selves or completely unhinged characters that take advantage of virtual customization. In contrast to the Sims, RMB City is a reflection of China’s heightened commercial consumption culture. As the physical world becomes more and more driven by consumption, commercialization also leeches into virtual reality, reflecting that it is almost impossible to escape. 

Reading about Life Sharing under the context of modern issues with online privacy revealed how much the internet has since evolved into a mode of data collection of every user’s personal life. Even with social media providing a space to display our lives, Life Sharing’s complete transparency of personal files is jarring, since people don’t air their dirty laundry for everyone to see. Life Sharing’s component of allowing users to recycle material for their own creations is reminiscent of today’s memes, but memes don’t originate as a purposeful act of media recycling, but happen much more organically. People now partake in their own version of Life Sharing by providing all of their data for tech companies to profit from, whether they realize or not. So even if users aren’t actively creating a space for people to view their computer files, companies can still learn everything about you.
