In our digital age of social media presences and online engagements, the virtual body is an integral part of our day to day lives. We do not just exist as physical, biological bodies when we make virtual profiles online to portray a specific image of ourselves to other people. We can manufacture our online personas to be completely converse to our in-person interactions, thus rendering our online interactions like a video game avatar of ourselves. Thus, our virtual and physical bodies can exist as completely separate entities.

This begs the question: which is our true authentic body, the biological or the virtual? Our biological bodies exist in the “real”, inescapable physical world, but does this mean that our physical identity and interactions are genuine representations of who we are? Some can argue that the internet is a more fluid and free space for exploration and self expression than the physical world, where our online personalities can reveal who we really intend to be, when real world social constructs pose more restrictions. Others can say their online presence is not a true representation of their in-person identity, and that to really know them, they’d need face-to-face interaction. Both of these are valid reconciliations of the virtual vs physical. However, limitations arise when people hide behind the virtual space with ill intentions. In Julie’s case, did she intend to use her place of privilege to take advantage of her online correspondents by fabricating her online identity? Or was she simply looking for a part to play, a character to escape the real world into? The virtual and biological body have the potential to be true reflections of one persona or two completely different personas. If there are differences, how do we reconcile the two to prevent the others’ feeling of deceit and betrayal?
