Social relationships have evolved much since Gene McHugh's writing in that online relationships are no longer seen as a lower tier form of forming bonds, but instead as a widespread norm. Apps like Tinder and Bumble have become so mainstream that it is no longer surprising or shameful to hear couples say they've met online. People can even use Bumble's Friend mode to make platonic connections. Connections can be made with simple swipes and cheeky introductions that can lead to relationships, hookups, or ghostings. Online connections also make long distance relationships possible such that the distance is reduced to real time communication over screens. Even those who meet in real life must take their relationships online when they text or video call. Especially during times of COVID, online relationships are the only way for many to maintain social connections. While online relationships cannot replace an IRL connection of experiencing someone in front of them, they have become an integral part of modern society and are inescapable if one wants to make a modern connection. 

Claire L. Evans' article speaks to the very real part of online relationships which lives on social media's for others to see. Social media has made personal relationships open for people to consume, so that when someone suddenly stops posting about their significant other or deletes all their pictures, other people can infer a breakup even if nobody directly told them. Public displays of affection happen IRL and online, both inviting other people to view and make judgements about people's personal lives. The difference is that online PDA leaves a trace that exists for revisiting and may be harder to erase if the time comes.
