Just as context is needed to understand the significance of historical paintings, context is needed to understand the significance of net art of the early 2000s. Without context, art exists in a vacuum and cannot be understood by anything outside of its contents. This is why “context is king.” The creation of commercial net art projects must be seen in the context of capitalization  of online spaces in the 1990s. Where internet artists before could use the emerging media of the internet as a playground for self expression, the space was increasingly being taken over by commercial interests looking for profit, and thus projects had to adapt with this shift.

One of these projects is “Samsung,” created in 1999 by Young-hae Chang Heavy Industries. Without understanding the context behind the project, “Samsung” is an oddly passionate ode to an electronics company. With the context of Korea’s relationship with the company, viewers can understand that it is a representation of Korea’s dependence on Samsung products that are a constant in their lives from birth until death. As said in the project, Samsung literally gives some Koreans life, with Samsung contributing to one fifth of Korea’s GDP. Thus, “Samsung” is a reflection that in a capitalist society, people are nothing without the brands they consume. Framing Samsung as a lover or god-like figure, the project highlights people’s emotional dependence on corporations to fulfill their daily needs and maintain their standard of living. The lack of interactivity and automatic playing on the project site reflects that our relationships with corporations are an uncontrollable fate that keeps on going, with or without us. In turn, big corporations like Samsung become bigger and stronger, wielding enough power to make decisions like gods. 
