Reading through Olia Lialina’s Vernacular Web series invoked a great sense of childhood nostalgia that brought me back to my childhood days of using Microsoft Paint and going through clipart galleries of sparkling gifs. The web’s visual style of the 1990s to early 2000s based itself upon maximalism and cutesy graphics, which directly contrasts the modern web’s more clean and minimalistic norms. While many people regard the 2000s web style as unprofessional and ugly, the style is often revisited as the Y2K aesthetic to invoke nostalgia and break away from mainstream design trends, prevalent on creative platforms such as tumblr.com.

Lialina regards many of these visual vernaculars as going obsolete, but 15 years after her articles were written, we can see an evolution rather than an extinction of these functions. For example, the personal homepage was scorned for being an unnecessary welcoming message that “does not exist anymore”. However in modern web development, homepages are crucial to the navigation and marketing of any site, used to invite the user in to further explore the rest of the website. “Mail me” buttons have become contact pages and social media links, and email has remained an incredibly important part of modern communication. Glittering gifs have evolved into animated virtual stickers and sparkling social media filters. These seemingly amateur web functions have just gone through redesigns that make them seamless and integral parts of the modern online experience.
